# Chapter 5

In the previous chapter, we discussed composite data types, which are constructed using
the struct keyword as well as topics such as regular expressions, pattern matching, tuples,
runes, strings and the unicode and strings standard Go packages before developing a
simple key-value store in Go.There are times, however, that the structures offered by a
programming language will not fit a particular problem. In such cases, you will need to
create your own data structures to store, search, and receive your data in explicit and
specialized ways.Consequently, this chapter is all about developing and using many well-
known data structures in Go including binary trees, linked lists, hash tables, stacks, and
queues and learning about their advantages. As nothing describes a data structure better
than an image, you will see many explanatory figures in this chapter! The last part of the
chapter will address random number generation, which can help you generate difficult-to-
guess passwords!In this chapter of Mastering Go, you will learn about the following topics:

- Graphs and nodes
- Measuring the complexity of an algorithm
- Binary trees in Go
- Hash tables in Go
- Linked lists in Go
- Doubly linked lists in Go
- Queues in Go
- Stacks in Go
- The data structures offered by the container standard Go package
- Generating random numbers in Go
- Building random strings that can be used as difficult-to-crack passwords

## 图标和节点

A graph G(V,E) is a finite, nonempty set of vertices V (or nodes) and a set of edges E. There
are two main types of graphs: cyclic graphs and acyclic graphs. A cyclic graph is one where
all or a number of its vertices are connected in a closed chain. In acyclic graphs, there are no
closed chains. A Directed Graph is one whose edges have a direction associated with them.
A Directed Acyclic Graph is a directed graph with no cycles in it.

> 提示: As a node may contain any kind of information, nodes are usually
> implemented using Go structures.

## 算法复杂度

The efficiency of an algorithm is judged by its computational complexity, which mostly has
to do with the number of times the algorithm needs to access its input data to do its job.
The Big O notation is used in computer science for describing the complexity of an
algorithm. Thus, an O(n) algorithm, which needs to access its input only once, is considered
better than an O(n 2 ) algorithm, which is better than an O(n 3 ) algorithm, and so on. The worst
algorithms, however, are the ones with an O(n!) running time, which makes them almost
unusable for inputs with more than 300 elements.

Last, most Go lookup operations in built-in types, such as finding the value of a map key or
accessing an array element, have a constant time, which is represented by O(1). This means
that built-in types are generally faster than custom types, and that you should generally
favor using them, unless you want full control over what is going on behind the scenes.

Furthermore, not all data structures are created equal. Generally speaking, array operations
are faster than map operations, which is the price you have to pay for the versatility of a
map.

## Go的二叉树

## Go的Hash表

## Go的链表

