# Chapter 7 Reflection and Interfaces for All Seasons

In the previous chapter, we talked about developing packages and functions in Go. We also
discussed how to work with text and HTML templates with the help of the text/template
and html/template packages. Finally, we explained the use of the syscall package.
In this chapter, you will learn three very interesting, handy, and somewhat advanced Go
concepts: reflection, interfaces, and type methods. Although Go interfaces are used all of the
time, reflection is not, mainly because it is usually unnecessary for your programs to make
use of it. Furthermore, you will learn about type assertions and object-oriented
programming (OOP) in Go.

In this chapter, you will learn the following topics:

Type methods
Go Interfaces
Type assertions
Developing and using your own interfaces
Object-oriented programming the Go way
Reflection and the reflect standard Go package

## Type methods

A Go type method is a function with a special receiver argument. You declare methods as
ordinary functions with an additional parameter that appears in front of the function name.
This particular parameter connects the function to the type of that extra parameter. As a
result, that parameter is called the receiver of the method.

```go
/*methods.go
*/
package main

import (
    "fmt"
)

type twoInts struct {
    X int64
    Y int64
}

func regularFunction(a, b twoInts) twoInts {
    temp := twoInts{X: a.X + b.X, Y: a.Y + b.Y}
    return temp
}

func (a twoInts) method(b twoInts) twoInts {
    temp := twoInts{X: a.X + b.X, Y: a.Y + b.Y}
    return temp
}

func main() {
    i := twoInts{X: 1, Y: 2}
    j := twoInts{X: -5, Y: -2}
    fmt.Println(regularFunction(i, j))
    fmt.Println(i.method(j))
}
```

运行method.go的结果如下：

```shell
$ go run methods.go
{-4 0}
{-4 0}
```

The following Go code represents the implementation of the Close() function as found
in `https://golang.org/src/os/file_plan9.go`:

```go
func (f *File) Close() error {
    if err := f.checkValid("close"); err != nil {
        return err
    }
    return f.file.close()
}
```

The Close() function is a type method because there is that (f *File) parameter in front
of its name and after the func keyword. The f parameter is called the receiver of the
method; in object-oriented programming terminology this process can be described as
sending a message to an object. In Go, the receiver of a method is defined using a regular
variable name—usually using a single letter—without the need to use a dedicated keyword,
such as this or self .

`Close()` 函数

Now let's review a complete example using the Go code of the methods.go file, which will
be presented in four parts.

