# CS

## CS 229

Prerequisites
Students are expected to have the following background:
Knowledge of basic computer science principles and skills, at a level sufficient to write a reasonably non-trivial computer program.
Familiarity with probability theory (CS 109 or STATS 116)
Familiarity with linear algebra (any one of Math 104, Math 113, or CS 205 should be sufficient)

## CS 109

Prerequeisties

## Math 19

- Syllabus
A quick review of limits, application of the squeeze theorem and the L'Hopital's rule in computing limits, continuity, and the intermediate value theorem.

A quick review of tangents, derivative at a point, chain rule, and the implicit rule of differentiation.

Linearization and differentials including applications.

Extreme values of functions, mean value theorem, monotonic functions, and the first derivative test.

Second derivative test and optimization problems.

A quick review of integrals and the fundamental theorem of calculus.

- Recommended Textbooks

Calculus Lecture Notes by Prof. Oliver Knill.

Thomas’ Calculus: Early Transcendentals, Single Variable, 13th Edition, by George B. Thomas Jr., Maurice D. Weir, Joel R. Hass (Pearson Publishers).
This is the best textbook in the instructor's opinion.


## Math 51

- Syllabus
An Introduction to vectors, linear combinations, and span.

Dot products, orthogonality, and linear independence of vectors.

Elemenatary row operations, reduced row echelon form, and solutions to systems of equations.

Matrix/vector products, nullspace, and columnspace.

Subspaces, bases and dimension, linear operators.

- Textbook
Linear Algebra by Steven Levandosky (Pearson Custom Publishing).
This is the course textbook for the linear algebra portion of Math 51 during the academic year at Stanford and is available at the Stanford Bookstore.

